Today we will talk about a very interesting
concept that is involvement.
The implication is the translation
of the term involvement in English.
Basically, the purchase of
a product or service always has
a certain level of involvement
in the customer.
What does this mean for the level of engagement?
Well, it is the level
of effort, economic effort,
expectations, perceived
risk, time spent making decisions,
of importance
for the customer.
Therefore, all purchases have
a certain level of involvement,
high, medium or low, or as we
want to classify it.
The point is that it is very interesting,
it is very important that you understand
this.
Why is?
Because the purchases or products
that are related to low-level involvement
have nothing to do with how the
customer makes the decision,
what is what the customer expects,
what expectations are
being generated, what leverage
we have to use to convince
the customer, what channels
we have to use, etc.
That is, the first thing you have
to do is understand if we are talking
about high, medium or low-impact
products to be able to adapt
absolutely all that you have after.
You will understand it very well.
We will make a classification in three
ranges.
This is really a scale, that is,
this is not white or black, it is
not that a product is in one quadrante
or another, but I want you
to understand at least the
extremes.
And let’s start, for example,
with products or purchases that
have a low implication.
Well, because they are more regular,
more recurrent purchases, with
a lower price.
I have put here that they are more
comfortably because usually the customer
does not perceive much difference
between one and the other.
It gives you a little like, they
are low-risk, low-impact,
low-importance purchases.
You could give thousands of examples,
but for example milk, because
some socks, buying toothpaste,
a medicine, the coffee shop, choosing
a coffee shop or another, I
think it’s easy to understand
what I’m referring to.
What is important here is
really to understand what
implications this has or what
repercussions this has on how the
customer makes the decision,
because from this knowledge
it is when we will be able
to adapt everything in our
marketing strategy.
Well, basically I want you to
know that customers in this type
of decisions make them almost in
many cases by routine.
That is, you buy the brand of milk
but basically the one you’ve
always bought.
I say it below, you can have brand
loyalty but in many cases it is a
loyality almost without foundation,
it is a loyalty by inertia and
when you buy you don’t compare
much between the different options.
Basically, it is very important that you
have products that are accessible,
those that come to you best and
in many cases are impulsive purchases.
This is how the customer’s decisions
are made.
I will give you some examples of
middle level involvement.
If we are talking about choosing
a restaurant where you will dine
or a furniture or your dentist
or make a suit on your own,
here in this case we are talking
about shopping in which the implication
is a little bigger.
Let us go to the extreme.
We go to shopping where the involvement
is very high.
Why is?
Because they are unusual purchases
with very high prices where
expectations are very high, etc.
Here in this case, customers perceive
a lot of difference between
each of the alternatives.
Think long, etc.
What is important here?
Just like when we analyzed low involvement,
the important thing is that we understand
how the customer makes the
decision.
In this case, customers do what
they do is analyze, compare
many, compare everything that
is on the market, prices,
features, devote time, the
process is much longer.
This is not an impulse purchase as
before and you also have to keep
in mind that your expectations
are very high because of dedication,
effort in resources,
in time, etc.
is much larger.
And this means that after you
buy you the evaluation they will
make of your product or service
will be very high.
And not meeting their expectations.